---
layout: post
title: "Day 1 - Getting Started"
---

### What I Set Out to Do
I aimed to get as far into making a playable text based minesweeper game. I would do this by creating a board and get user input to guess coordinates. I didn't know what a realistic goal for today would be because I didn't know how difficult it would be to create this game.

---

### What I Actually Did

So far I've made a board that contains mines, that if you guess a coordinate with a mine on it, you lose. Currently you can see the board and cannot win so it is very incomplete, but my thought process is is definitely there. I have a lot of good ideas that I plan to implement later on.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

I think that that this first day went very well, I was able to implement some ideas that I had been thinking about before I even started. I think that, when I'm doing something that I find interesting and get invested in, I make very good progress. This goal that I'm going for is to make a fun game, which is very motivating to me. I also found that by creating a simple board by putting a bunch of lists inside another list, it is easy to extract coordinates by using indexing.

---

### What's Next

In the next day or two I hope to finish my text based game by implementing a board that the player sees, and one that the computer checks so that the player can't see where the mines are, as they currently can. I also want to implement a system to show where you've already checked, numbers to show how many mines are nearby, and flags if I can find an easy to to do it. After I finish the text based game I aim to make an actual gui that makes the game look better, and makes it easier to play.
