---
layout: post
title: "Final Post - Advice to Future CS Students"
---

## What’s One Thing You’d Tell Someone Starting This Course?

I think that, when starting a big project like this, you should plan out a lot of stuff. A lot of times playing stuff my ear can be useful, because then you can get good ideas when your actually coding, but I think it is also a good idea to make a game plan. If I had made a game plan beforehand, I could've known exactly what I wanted to do, and this could help with my time manegment. Overall I got through this project pretty well, and I might not have gotten some great ideas that I ended up using if I hadn't just jumped right into it, but I think makeing a plan to start is a very good idea.

## What Did You Learn That Might Stick With You?

I think that something that will stick with me is to make variable names and be consistant with my function inputs, and this also connects a little to planning. In my code, to make it easier for the user, I had the coordinates as a string input, which meant that I need to slice out the numbers, with many tedious problmes, such as the difference between one and two digit numbers within the string. If I had made variable names, which I did in some of my functions, it would've been much easier. Another thing is input for my functions, some of my functions take an x and a y coordinate seperatly, both as integers, and some of my functions just take the whole coordinate string, if I had added the variables and made every function take a seperate x and y, it would have been much easeier. The problem with my case is that once I noticed that I could make it better, I was already very far in and it would take a lot of tedious work, which could also mess up my code, and I didn't want to risk that.

## What Helped You Get Through Challenges?

Something that helped me through challenges was just sitting back and taking a moment to look at my code, a lot of times I would get mad because I thought that my code should work, but it didn't. At these times, I could just look at my code, and trace it a little, just to see exactly where I'm going wrong.

## What’s Next for You?

I don't know what I want to go into, but CS might be an option for me, I've really enjoyed problem solving for a while, and some parts of this class I enjoyed. I think that if I want to continue with this project I'll create a gui for the minesweeper board, but I don't know if I'll want to do that. I might want to take a college level CS class next year, and I hope that this class's skills will be useful if I do take that class.

---
